Initial proofread of preface and avoid loops chapter (#11)
sapegin/washingcode-book: manuscript/book.md

});
```

> Now, let’s try and find an element in an array with a `for` loop:

Author: I suppose I was more looking at ways of not stating with "Or" here, and the "try" part kinda came out naturally here as it has a bit of an instructional ring to it. Maybe just simply:

```suggestion
Now, let’s find an element in an array with a `for` loop:
```

If it’s indeed a bug, and the intention is to check if _some_ of the products have the expected type, then the `.some()` array method would be the best choice:

```js
const isExpectedType = products.some(
  product => product.type === expectedType
);
```

If the behavior of the original code wasn’t a bug, then we actually don’t need to iterate at all. We can check the latest array item directly:

```js
const isExpectedType =
  products[products.lengths - 1].type === expectedType;
```

Both refactored versions make the intention of the code clearer and leave fewer doubts that the code is correct. We can probably make the `isExpectedType` variable name more explicit, especially in the second refactoring.

### Dealing with side effects

Side effects make code harder to understand because you can no longer treat a function as a black box: a function with side effects doesn’t just transform input to output but can affect the environment in unpredictable ways. Functions with side effects are also hard to test because you’ll need to recreate the environment before each test is run and verify it after.

> All array methods mentioned in the previous section, except `.forEach()`, imply that they don’t have side effects and that only the return value is used. Introducing any side effects into these methods would make code easy to misread since readers won’t be expecting them.

Author: Wouldn't side effects be the object here and the array methods the subject, so them should refer to the object? I wouldn't interpret them as referring to the methods in this sentence, personally, but I'm not a grammar expert either! It was more a case really of trying to avoid the repetition of "side effects".

```suggestion
All array methods mentioned in the previous section, except `.forEach()`, imply that they are pure and only the return value is used. Readers won't be expecting side effects, so introducing them would make code easy to misread.
```

> All array methods mentioned in the previous section, except `.forEach()`, imply that they don’t have side effects and that only the return value is used. Introducing any side effects into these methods would make code easy to misread since readers won’t be expecting them.

Reviewer: I think that's too much to ask of the reader ;-) I usually use "them" only if it's super clear what it is, otherwise expanding it.

> All array methods mentioned in the previous section, except `.forEach()`, imply that they don’t have side effects and that only the return value is used. Introducing any side effects into these methods would make code easy to misread since readers won’t be expecting them.

Reviewer: Let's bring "side effects" back and I'll merge it.

```suggestion
All array methods mentioned in the previous section, except `.forEach()`, imply that they don’t have side effects and that only the return value is used. Introducing any side effects into these methods would make code easy to misread since readers won’t be expecting side effects.
```

But is it really more readable?

> After a cup of coffee and a chat with a colleague, I’ve ended up with a much cleaner version:

Author: Agreed..maybe:

```suggestion
After a cup of coffee and a chat with a colleague, I’ve ended up with a much cleaner approach:
```
